Introduction to Programming
Individual Project
Topic — Base64 Encoding

1.0 Introduction

1.1 Background
	Common to all binary-to-text encoding schemes, Base64 is designed to carry data stored in binary formats across channels that only reliably support text content. Base64 is particularly prevalent on the World Wide Web where one of its uses is the ability to embed image files or other binary assets inside textual assets such as HTML and CSS files.Base64 is also widely used for sending e-mail attachments. This is required because SMTP—in its original form—was designed to transport 7-bit ASCII characters only. This encoding causes an overhead of 33–36% (33% by the encoding itself; up to 3% more by the inserted line breaks).My research showed that all the courses are based on a specific memorry location. In scope of project my idea was to add a function which will provide oppertunity to ask a user to add a specific size for the string and write his/her own text for encoding.

1.1.2 Assumptions and Constraints
	For creating such a program, I am going to use Programming Language, especially C Programming Language.

1.2 Overview of the Envisioned System

1.2.1 Overview
	In computer programming, Base64 is a group of binary-to-text encoding schemes that represent binary data (more specifically, a sequence of 8-bit bytes) in sequences of 24 bits that can be represented by four 6-bit Base64 digits. Base64 is a way to encode the binary data. Each Base64 digit represents exactly 6 bits of data. So, three 8-bits bytes of the input string/binary file (3×8 bits = 24 bits) can be represented by four 6-bit Base64 digits (4×6 = 24 bits). 

1.2.2 System Scope
	As program runs, it will ask the user to input a number for initializing the size of a string, which is used to dynamically allocate a single large block of memory with the specified size. After that will ask the user to imput some string, which he/shewants to be encoded and after it will show the input data and the ouput will be the encoded version of input data.

2.0 Documents

2.1 Applicable Documents
	For creating the program I am going to use libraries and code from the internet.

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/encode-ascii-string-base-64-format/?ref=gcse

